[Music]
well back guys rogue phase two time so
we got the business we got the gear guy
do you want to know what pieces to pryo
what spec to choose whether you want to
be improved exposed armor or combat
hammer or just full dps we got the
answers so let's go this is the rogue
phase 2 business gear guide and cheat
sheet let's get into it alright guys so
before we get started i know some people
are going to be looking for my dps gain
and loss per item you guys really like
it when i show you like oh this is the
item you get this is how much dps you
gain this is how much dps you lose
versus other items well i've moved all
of that into an easy to use format now
so i'll show you guys
this is for example the weapon cheat
sheet so this is remember back in
classic i used to do
main hand off hand weapon combination
cheat sheets and things like that now i
have this but even better so i took all
the dps values
and sim them and gave you an easy to use
cheat sheet for weapons whether it's
main hand off hand if you want your
chest piece your wrist pieces any piece
of gear i took it all the items for all
of tbc or all the main items anyway in
tbc sim them you can select them in
these easy use spreadsheets you can
select if you only want phase 2 items
phase 3 items
phase four items even you can select
that and all of that will show here
nicely sorted for you with the phase
color coded and you can just see okay uh
if i get this one this is how much dps
upgrade it is so i always use like a
priebus or a phase one this ish level
item and i compare it based on
how much gps upgrade it is based on that
so
yeah this is my new dps cheat sheet it's
available on the website it's all linked
in the description below tbc guides.gg
and uh this is where all my cheat sheets
are so i just thought that this was a
better way to give you guys the cheat
sheets i worked a lot of time on this to
make sure that this database is
populated with basically all the items
that you could really look up in tbc so
if there's any mistakes like with the
wrong phase listed or anything like that
you guys can tell me and i will correct
it so yeah i hope you guys enjoyed this
i worked a lot of time on this and i
hope this makes it easier for you guys
to see the dps gain and loss for any
item in tbc without having to open sim
sheets and search yourself
so yeah this is all linked below tbc
guides.gg let's get into the face to
business now today i'm proud to tell you
guys that this video is sponsored by
skillshare so you guys know i don't take
sponsors very often but i've been a fan
of online learning since as far back as
2010 when i first got started in online
websites and coaching online as a
professional snowboarder skillshare is
everything i wish i had when i first
started all in one place it's a giant
repository with thousands of tutorials
from photography to web design to video
editing and even meditation the best
thing i ever did was just go out
discover
and explore all the different skills i
was interested in it's why i now know
how to run websites edit videos in final
cut and do online marketing skillshare
has you covered whether it's learning
how to make online videos like me or
learn a life skill like wanting to
become a better storyteller they even
have lessons on that i really liked your
lesson on youtube success with marquis
brownlee himself showing you how he
scripts shoots and edits his youtube
videos
all of skillshare's tutorials are
curated to help you learn so there's
always new classes and best of all no
ads so you don't have to worry about
being interrupted while learning right
now skillshare is giving a one month
free trial of unlimited content and
tutorials whatever you can watch and
learn in one month that's all free the
first 1000 my subscribers to click that
link in the description will get a one
month free trial of skillshare so go
ahead start exploring your creativity
today so please guys if you like my
content you want to help support the
channel go check out the link in the
description go sign up for skillshare
you get a whole month for free and it
helps support me so thank you again
skillshare for sponsoring this video all
right so as always i do always put a
patreon bonus now so the bonus for the
patreons this time is i'm going to take
my ptr footage run you through the
serpent shrine cabin raid through all
the buses and basically tell you these
are my general rotation ideas the
strategies the cooldown timings i have
so far based on my ptr rating in ssc and
it's kind of like an early look people
always request these from me but i
rarely do these you guys usually have to
wait for the late stage advance dps
guide but this is kind of like an early
boss strategy guide to get you set up in
ssc as a rogue tell you like this is
what you should be doing this is when i
think you should be using cooldowns this
is how i think you should be exposed
armoring which bosses you should even
expose armor all that good stuff so yeah
if you enjoyed that that is on the
patreon and you can sign up if you would
like access to that
but let's get into the business so
firstly talent specs let's talk talent
specs so the first thing with town specs
in phase two is we're gonna swap improve
eviscerate and murder so in the past we
used to take murder but when tbc started
we stopped taking murder or a lot of
people stopped taking murder because the
two percent damage buff didn't apply to
a lot of
raid bosses and such in cars and for
example but now in phase two we're going
to be fighting humanoids again while
it's not all the raid bosses and all the
trash mobs there's a large amount of
them that murder does work so you're
going to take murder again so this is
the main change everything else mostly
stays the same in phase two is that uh
we take the two points and murder again
instead of improve eviscerate okay now
the next question i'm sure i'm gonna get
a lot of is should you do improved
exposed armor versus combat hammer
versus full combat dps
so the too long didn't read if you just
want to skip this section is that look
if you run one rogue parade okay
then improve exposed armor is far and
ahead the best raid spec in phase 2.
it's definitely what i would be running
technically and some of tempus keep
there's a couple buses where improve
exposed armor might not be great but
pretty much for everything else i would
run improve exposed armor so it
basically means that if you want to pick
one spec then it would be improve
exposed armor for phase two now quickly
because some people want to know there's
only a few situations where i would ever
pick combat hammel over improve exposed
armor in phase two so those situations
are
one you have two rogues and you want
that second row to also play a support
spec so if for some reason you're on a
double row grade and you have a second
rogue he can choose to play hemo to help
support the raid as well but however the
alternative to this is that he can also
just play full dps and just
take turns right if you have two rogues
you can alternate one does expose alma
every week and that's kind of the way
most people do it and generally it's the
way i would still do it i don't think
it's a good idea to force your second
rogue to also play support spec unless
you're like a hardcore guild but it's
this weird situation where if you're
hardcore guild you probably aren't
bringing two raids uh two rogues anyway
so
yeah this is the one of the few
situations where if you want to run
combat hammel it would work if you had
two roads like this now option two is
your rogue doing improved exposed armor
is bad at his class and can't keep
exposed armor up so
if you're rogue for some reason you have
a broke who can't do exposed armor then
you can toss hammer on him that's that's
fine but ideally is this doesn't happen
and you don't have a road which is just
bad and and you want to make him do
something that's useful ideally he
doesn't suck at exposed armory
and option three is if the boss
mechanic's just unfriendly to expose
armor then you can run combat ammo now
this really doesn't happen for the most
part in
phase two there's mainly a couple bosses
i think in tk tempest keep where
exposed armor isn't that friendly but
outside of those two buses um pretty
much all of ssc i didn't really have
much problems with improved exposed
armor so
uh the problem here is that you wouldn't
be just swapping in and out of the spec
you would mostly probably just pick one
spec so in most cases you would still
run improve expose alma in in pretty
much almost all cases basically
so yeah combat hamill very very uh
little use overall in phase two
um it's just not something that's going
to be meta right now now the other
problem is you may have heard that
combat hammer performs better on trash
because you're not exposed armoring
trash now this is true but the problem
is from some very rough math you need
something in a realm of 80 percent of
your total damage in a raid to be trash
damaged before that combat hammer ever
even comes close to the damage gain
from doing improved exposed armor on
buses so
this is kind of unlikely to ever happen
in tbc so
unless you're running like a full caster
raid with no melee dps then maybe
but in almost every other case you would
never hit this eighty percent mark in
total damage in a rage so comment hammer
kind of dead in the water right now now
the final thing is you may have heard
that combat hammer is a dps increase for
your personal dps uh this is not true
in comparison to full combat full combat
with no exposed armor and no hammer
still outperforms everything else by a
mile it's not even close full combat
just not improve exposed armoring and
not hammering is
a mile ahead of everything else so
don't go combat hammer for personal dps
at all okay now let's talk about the
talent specs you kind of have two
options they're pretty much the exact
same thing as before so option one is
just your standard combat exposed armor
spec nothing fancy here it's just 20
points assassination 41 points combat
uh pretty much the same spec you've been
running all of classic phase one
probably except you got the two points
in murder here now you notice that i
always keep exposed armor talents that's
because it's just not worth swapping
them out the dps gain
by not taking the two points in exposed
armor is very minor it's just easier to
just always have it just in case you
need to expose armor you're not going to
notice any dps loss here really okay now
the next spec is the hybrid specs so
this is again something you should be
familiar with
is that you can go 16 assassination 45
combat and this allows you to take both
swords back for your offhand weapon and
also take five in fists or five in maces
depending on whether your main hand is
fists or maces so this is just your
standard hybrid spec again nothing's
fancy don't anything different from
phase one is that we have the two points
in murder now instead of improving
eviscerate okay now let's talk about
your day one phase two bisque gear so
guys this is really awkward okay so by
day one i mean this is what you can do
on the first day of phase two what you
can transition to so a lot of people are
talking about ng goggles i thought i
would explain the swaps that you can
make
now the main thing to keep in mind is
that you're still trying to keep your
two set waist walker and two set tier
four
so this means that you're actually not
going to be able to swap much out
because when you swap stuff out you need
two pieces at a time usually you don't
want to break your waste walker set or
tier 4 set with just one item so you
need to swap two items at a time
so this is kind of your best option for
phase two
at the start if you want like a day one
option now
would i generally do this honestly not
really i wouldn't because
the thing is it's actually kind of a
side grade the dps gain isn't that much
it's you're literally just doing this
just for death blow goggles
and then you're swapping out from phase
one this you're swapping out skulkers
for tier four legs and then you're gonna
have to get another enchant if you don't
have those enchanted and you're still
keeping your wastewalker two set so this
is basically mostly a side grade and
you're going to have to blow an enchant
on these legs which you're going to
replace later anyway
so
on the whole if you really want to use
your definite goggles on day one this is
what you can do this is generally one of
the better options from what i've been
assuming is that you keep your two set
waist walker the same and then you swap
out your skulker's legs for tier four
legs and this will get you a small dps
increase or roughly break even but it
does let you use your deadpool goggles
if you happen to craft them on day one
now again you can avoid this if you
don't care about this you can honestly
just skip this and it doesn't even
matter now as far as your end game
biscuit now you have two options for
your phase two biss and i would highly
recommend you pick this first option the
chest offset so you're basically picking
your four piece tier five with one
offset piece you either do the chest
piece or the shoulder piece those are
kind of the two best pieces you can
obviously still go for example five set
tier five and it's not that far behind
but this is kind of a no-brainer i would
highly recommend this and this is why
it's because
your options here are mainly to do four
set tier and then you take the blood c
vest and the blood sea vest is very
uncontested no one really wants this
besides us robes
so there's kind of like no reason not to
take it it's got great stats and what
are the only ones that really want it
and it allows us to avoid that highly
contested tier 5 chess token so
a lot of shamans seemingly want well at
least the shamans and my guild want the
tier 5 chess token so this allows us to
not have to compete with them we can
just get this which is completely
uncontested and this option also allows
us to have a little bit more hit which
gives us a little bit more flexibility
we don't have to worry as much about
stacking full hit jams and such if we go
to blood c route with the four set tier
so blood c four set tier is kind of the
way we're going here now option two is a
variation of this but just with the four
set tier and the shoulders as the off
piece now the reason i don't recommend
going for this offset piece is because
the shoulders are highly contested fury
wars want these and hans shaman want
these you're fighting those guys for it
it's just not worth uh why why fight and
contest for this when we can just go
with option one the blood sea vest which
is basically the same dps gain anyway
but not super contested so
unless for some reason you don't have an
enhanced xiaomi you don't have fury
warriors and there's not a lot of of
people contesting the tier 5 chest
i would not go
this set really there's there's kind of
no point the blizzy option is just
superior because it's easier to get in
the same dps gains okay so let's quickly
talk over the full abyss basically it's
four set tier so you can see we're using
four sets of tier here you're using your
necklace still from either karazhan or
the badge neck both of these are
basically identical with swapping just
one hit around
so
either neck is fine here
the drape of dark reavers if you got
that in phase one you're still using it
now it's perfectly fine it's roughly
this i'll show you a side grid in a
second but if you have this from phase
one you just keep using it
uh again we go the blood sea vest no one
else wants this we basically get this
for free
now the vam braces of ending these are
contested uh hunters do want these so
these you will have to fight your
hunters for them but
they are abrasive upgrade which is
typically not a big deal rogues don't
really care that much about braces as
much because the dps gain isn't as crazy
but these are basically contested by
hunters
now the sword we actually don't have
much contest on sword so i'll talk about
this further down the two sword options
but we're going talon main hand and
merciless gladiators quick blade for
your two weapons now everyone knows
about this belt of 100 deaths obviously
amazing belt one of the biggest dps
increases are covered in a second but
obviously about 100 deaths really really
good if for some reason you don't get
this you're probably using the crafted
shadow belt but this is 100 the belt you
want to be running for
and besides that we're still using edge
walker boots from phase one these are
really really good so nothing new there
now we do get two new rings in phase two
uh it's probably unlikely that you get
both because it might be kind of tricky
with how many drop and rng and such but
you should be able to pick up one of
these rings now as well as that if
you're lucky to have your dragon spine
obviously you're still using that and
now we get warp spring coil so this is a
very good trinket it's basically
uncontested really nice the way it's set
up because it's just rogue only can use
this
so we get one friend call you can play
the double passive trinket game which is
really nice actually double passive
trinket
you don't have to worry about actives
anymore it's actually very comfy it's
actually very comfy don't delete your
bloodlush brooch though because there's
still some fights where you might want
an active trinket to pop
now next we have arcanite steam pistol
uh this is again not very contested and
it's a very good range item but not a
big deal if you can't pick it up just
just something that no one else really
wants though okay now let's talk about
side grade items so i said some items
with side grades one is the talasian
wood cloak so you can pick this up
it's roughly
similar ish dps gain to the drape of
dark reavers but you swap the hit for
more stamina and attack power
so it's kind of like a personal
preference thing based on how much
you have whether you want more hit less
hit but this is an alternative option
particularly if you don't have drape you
can pick this up as well this is also a
nice option for pvpers who don't need
hit and want to stack more stamina and
attack power now here's an interesting
one that people may not realize is that
the latroll shifting sword
is actually still as good as merciless
gladiators quick blade if you're exposed
armory
so the trick here is that yes merciless
gladiators
quickblade is the better sword overall
but if you expose armoring
latros actually performs equal or better
by a tiny bit because the 0.1 speed
actually makes your exposed armor
rotation a little bit smoother for more
combat potency props
so latros still really really good in
phase two
now if you're super super sweaty though
you still want to pick up merciless
gladiators quickblade for trash and when
you're not exposed armory
because when you're not exposed arm ring
this actually beats the throws by 10 to
15 dps so
ideally you kind of actually want both
if you're a super sweaty player okay now
side grade 3 is kind of a weird one so
warp swing coil a hundred percent better
than bloodlust brooch unless you're in
like a very weird timed fight where you
happen to
line up exactly with using two actives
and then the fight ends but for the most
part watchman call is going to be better
but
in ssc there is a mob which you can mind
control
and it lowers the armor of some bosses
or any boss that you get this debuff on
now
most guilds will not be doing this it's
very sweaty it's very annoying to do but
if your guild is doing it you actually
want to swap out warp spring coil
for your bloodlust brooch because
if you're using this strategy to mind
control and lower boss armor the boss
armor actually ends up with zero armor
after sunders and everything
so you actually don't need warp spring
coil because watford coil lowers
the enemy's armor and he has no armor so
if you are in that super super sweat
lord guild
you will want to be using bloodless
brooch instead if you guys do that
cheese armor strat okay now some people
will be asking snow what about the phase
two weapons like rod of the sun king and
the fist weapons
that you can get from allah so
rather the sun king unfortunately has
only a one proc per minute base rate and
that is not good enough to make it this
so unfortunately rosanking not ideal for
us um
you're going to be wanting to go for
talon of azura instead now next uh just
i put this as a footnote but because
some people may ask me about the fist
weapons because you can get a set of
fist weapons in phase 2 tbc
they are actually not that great uh the
main reason is that latros is too good
so
swordspec and latros combined are too
good
the combat potency procs are just too
good and there's kind of no reason to
ever equip the offhand fist even if you
get the main hand fist the trolls is
just superior okay now let's talk about
the items you should loot prior so
firstly we have belt of 100 deaths so
this is an item you actually want to
pryo because the belt of 100 devs is
crazy dps increase it's the single most
contested item and the single biggest
dps increase outside of
a
weapon in the next phase now the problem
is this is also super contested so i say
that you should try to get this but you
might not actually be able to get this
uh because it's probably going to tanks
or a tank first and then the rat
paladins and then you can talk about it
when it comes to the time for the rogues
fury warriors and enhanced shamans
basically this is best for everyone who
is melee practically and it's really
really good so if you can get this
obviously get it but you're gonna have
to fight for prior foot and rows aren't
exactly
at the top of the heat on that prior
list now next are the two rings so the
two rings are interesting because
it depends on what your guild has
competition wise personally i want ring
of a lethality a lot more than band of
ranger general because it has pvp usage
this is better for pvp over the band of
the racial ranger general if you have
the garona cygnet band already
so
depending on what you want both of these
are good rings but personally i'm kind
of powering ring of lethality over the
ranger general ring
and i had to talk to some hunters as
well and it seems the hunters kind of
prefer or lean towards the band of
ranger general if they have to pick one
of these two rings because this is
better for the pvp set
so it kind of works out if you happen to
be a pvp you might want to select this
ring over the other ring and hunters who
pvp might want this one instead so that
kind of makes it a little bit easier to
allocate you have to talk to your guild
hunters and see what they want
but in the end both rings are good if
you can help somehow swing it and get
both rings then that's also you know a
good option to get obviously okay let's
talk about the freebie-ish items so
talon of azura is an interesting one
because
it's a main hand weapon it should go to
rogue prior because the only one that's
really contested
on this is fury warriors
and fury wars have the option of this
for the offhand the rod of the sun king
for the offhand and the glad weapon as
well for the offen if they are super
sweaty technically glad offhand is
best for them here but obviously not
every warrior is going to go farm arena
points but if they can then the glad
offhand is better than talon
and
rod over the sun king actually performs
very well as well so depending on how
many enhanced shamans you have ahead of
them in the queue for ronda sun king
they may be able to pick that up quickly
so in general i would definitely think
that this talon is rogue prio because
it's going to the world's main hand and
the warriors who would contest this have
other options as well so another thing
to know is this is our single biggest
dps upgrade so so just to show you the
dps gain again if we use vindicator's
brand i just use the previous option as
the dps gain
so even if you have a spike blade
or gladiator slicer which is here
the upgrade to this is something in a
realm of 50 dps so this is huge this is
like a 50 dps upgrade from phase one
this
so talon of eschera really really good
really really good for rogues should be
rogue prior now option two is bloodsy
brigands so again i don't really prior
this mostly because no one else to my
knowledge even wants this
it's pretty much just rogues
so this is a good 16 dps increase but i
don't actually
know
who
wants this it's pretty much just rogue
so you might just get defaulted this the
next one is arkhanise steam pistol this
is another freebie because assuming your
hunters and such have cara gear
no one except us wants this
so it's just a very nice pickup if you
can swing it because it's free
you don't even have to pry it now while
spring coil is another really good one
this is particularly a bigger dps
upgrade for rogues who don't have dst
because they're replacing a worst
trinket but it's still a dps upgrade
over bloodlust brooch anyway so all
right should want this
and uh you should try to pick this up
when you can so yeah this is just very
good it's very lucky that this is rogue
only because otherwise warriors would be
all over the armor penetration okay now
let's talk about how high you should
pryor tf5 because this is kind of a
tricky question so tier five death
mental
the two set and four set bonuses are
both
solid and good so
uh the faucet in particular is maybe a
large dps increase we don't have
official proc rate data but the four set
bonus on death metal might be worth in
the realm of 70 or more dps if
it performs the same as our early sims
and it has a one proc per minute but
again we don't know we're just guessing
what the proc per minute on this four
set is going to be
but if it has a one proc per minute proc
rate default then this might be a huge
item to try to pick up your forcep now
the other thing to keep in mind again is
that if you are replacing tier 4 or
waste walker
with tier 5 you always want to swap
in one other piece of this ish level
phase 2 here so this means if you swap
out
uh for example your helmet for death
metal helmet then you also want to try
to swap in the
set piece that you were using which is
probably tier four chests
so you want to swap in both death metal
chests and helm at the same time so
because of the set bonuses you're kind
of stuck in this weird limbo where a lot
of times you have to replace two items
at one time
while we're still in that phase one this
gear now the thing the nice thing to
keep in mind is that the tokens were
doubled by blizzard if you don't know so
tier token drop rates were double which
makes things a lot nicer honestly honest
um i think it means by month two and
three
everyone should kind of be set on tier
tokens unless you have really really bad
rng okay now here's a question who else
wants to your five pieces well we shared
the token with shamans and pallies
but for the most part unless they are
tank pelley or enhancement shaman they
don't really care that much most of them
only want maybe one piece of tier so
overall tier five not that bad really
for rogues we don't have a lot of
competition and the competition we do
have only
once like one piece for the most part
now the exception to this is tank
paladin and enhancement xiaomi so these
two guys both i use a few pieces of tier
but
the tank paladin i think it's kind of
okay to pryor one of your main tanks
gear early
and i honestly again because the
drop rate on the tokens are doubled i
wouldn't worry too much about
uh tier prio that much you're gonna get
it when you get it and in a couple
months everyone should really have it
now if you needed to pryo
these items personally i would go helmet
and leg tokens uh as prio so these tend
to be more contested from what i've seen
but again it's actually not a big deal
because you're going to see a lot of
helmet leg tokens unless you get unlucky
but this is just kind of an early thing
helm and leg tokens seem to be the most
contested with other paladins and
shamans now finally the tier 5 chess
token we do not really need because
again blood sea is uncontested for the
most part in most guilds
so
you want to aim for the blizzy chest and
not bother with the tier 5 token which
some shaman do want now again
i do have these cheat sheets here so if
you go to the menu of my website
tbcguys.gg you can find the cheat sheet
page
and you can search and find the dps
games for anything or all the main items
from raids in tbc
so if you want to check the dps gain
plus minus of any item in phase 2
whether it's pans chess weapons whatever
that is you can go to the cheat sheet
page select the phases that you want so
here i have phase one and two selected
and you can see the dps gain from
previous
basically all right so that was the
rogue phase two bisque gear guide
talents and cheat sheets so i hope you
found this video helpful i have to say
thank you again to all the patrons
especially you guys the big tier threes
who support me but each and every one of
you guys on the patreon are what make it
possible for me to do this and not worry
about youtube algorithm click bait
thumbnails and all that nonsense so
thank you so much if you would like to
help join the patreon link below and
thank you for all the support i'll see
you guys in the next video take care
[Music]